How to Understand and Use the Nutrition Facts Label

People look at food labels for a variety of reasons. But whatever the reason, many consumers would like to know how to use this information more effectively and easily. The following label-reading skills are intended to make it easier for you to use the Nutrition Facts labels to make quick, informed food decisions to help you choose a healthy diet.

Overview | Serving Information | Calories | Nutrients | The Percent Daily Value (%DV) | Nutrition Facts Label Variations
For additional resources on the Nutrition Facts label, visit www.fda.gov/NutritionFactsLabel.

Overview
The information in the main or top section (see #1-4) of the sample nutrition label (below) can vary with each food and beverage product; it contains product-specific information (serving size, calories, and nutrient information). The bottom section contains a footnote that explains the % Daily Value and gives the number of calories used for general nutrition advice.

In the Nutrition Facts label below we have colored certain sections to help you focus on those areas that will be explained in detail. Note that these colored sections are not on the actual food labels of products you purchase.

1. Serving Information
(#1 on sample label)

When looking at the Nutrition Facts label, first take a look at the number of servings in the package (servings per container) and the serving size. Serving sizes are standardized to make it easier to compare similar foods; they are provided in familiar units, such as cups or pieces, followed by the metric amount, e.g., the number of grams (g). The serving size reflects the amount that people typically eat or drink. It is not a recommendation of how much you should eat or drink.

It's important to realize that all the nutrient amounts shown on the label, including the number of calories, refer to the size of the serving. Pay attention to the serving size, especially how many servings there are in the food package. For example, you might ask yourself if you are consuming ½ serving, 1 serving, or more. In the sample label, one serving of lasagna equals 1 cup. If you ate two cups, you would be consuming two servings. That is two times the calories and nutrients shown in the sample label, so you would need to double the nutrient and calorie amounts, as well as the %DVs, to see what you are getting in two servings.

2. Calories
(#2 on sample label)

Calories provide a measure of how much energy you get from a serving of this food. In the example, there are 280 calories in one serving of lasagna. What if you ate the entire package? Then, you would consume 4 servings, or 1,120 calories.

To achieve or maintain a healthy body weight, balance the number of calories you eat and drink with the number of calories your body uses. 2,000 calories a day is used as a general guide for nutrition advice. Your calorie needs may be higher or lower and vary depending on your age, sex, height, weight, and physical activity level. Learn your estimated calorie needs at https://www.myplate.gov/myplate-plan.

Remember: The number of servings you consume determines the number of calories you actually eat. Eating too many calories per day is linked to overweight and obesity.

3. Nutrients
(#3 on sample label)

Look at section 3 in the sample label. It shows you some key nutrients that impact your health. You can use the label to support your personal dietary needs - look for foods that contain more of the nutrients you want to get more of and less of the nutrients you may want to limit.

Nutrients to get less of: Saturated Fat, Sodium, and Added Sugars.
Saturated fat, sodium, and added sugars are nutrients listed on the label that may be associated with adverse health effects - and Americans generally consume too much of them. They are identified as nutrients to get less of. Eating too much saturated fat and sodium, for example, is associated with an increased risk of developing some health conditions, like cardiovascular disease and high blood pressure. Consuming too much added sugars can make it hard to meet important nutrient needs while staying within calorie limits.

What are Added Sugars and How are they Different from Total Sugars?

Total Sugars on the Nutrition Facts label includes sugars naturally present in many nutritious foods and beverages, such as sugar in milk and fruit as well as any added sugars that may be present in the product. No Daily Reference Value has been established for total sugars because no recommendation has been made for the total amount to eat in a day.

Added Sugars on the Nutrition Facts label include sugars that are added during the processing of foods (such as sucrose or dextrose), foods packaged as sweeteners (such as table sugar), sugars from syrups and honey, and sugars from concentrated fruit or vegetable juices. Diets high in calories from added sugars can make it difficult to meet daily recommended levels of important nutrients while staying within calorie limits.

Note: Having the word "includes" before Added Sugars on the label indicates that Added Sugars are included in the number of grams of Total Sugars in the product.

For example, a container of yogurt with added sweeteners, might list:

Total Sugars on Sample Label
This means that the product has 7 grams of Added Sugars and 8 grams of naturally occurring sugars - for a total of 15 grams of sugar.

Nutrients to get more of: Dietary Fiber, Vitamin D, Calcium, Iron, and Potassium.
Dietary fiber, vitamin D, calcium, iron and potassium are nutrients on the label that Americans generally do not get the recommended amount of. They are identified as nutrients to get more of. Eating a diet high in dietary fiber can increase the frequency of bowel movements, lower blood glucose and cholesterol levels, and reduce calorie intake. Diets higher in vitamin D, calcium, iron, and potassium can reduce the risk of developing osteoporosis, anemia, and high blood pressure.

Remember: You can use the label to support your personal dietary needs—choose foods that contain more of the nutrients you want to get more of and less of the nutrients you may want to limit.


4. The Percent Daily Value (%DV)
(#4 on sample label)

The % Daily Value (%DV) is the percentage of the Daily Value for each nutrient in a serving of the food. The Daily Values are reference amounts (expressed in grams, milligrams, or micrograms) of nutrients to consume or not to exceed each day.

The %DV shows how much a nutrient in a serving of a food contributes to a total daily diet.

The %DV helps you determine if a serving of food is high or low in a nutrient.

Do you need to know how to calculate percentages to use the %DV? No, because the label (the %DV) does the math for you! It helps you interpret the nutrient numbers (grams, milligrams, or micrograms) by putting them all on the same scale for the day (0-100%DV). The %DV column doesn't add up vertically to 100%. Instead, the %DV is the percentage of the Daily Value for each nutrient in a serving of the food. It can tell you if a serving of food is high or low in a nutrient and whether a serving of the food contributes a lot, or a little, to your daily diet for each nutrient.

Note: some nutrients on the Nutrition Facts label, like total sugars and trans fat, do not have a %DV - they will be discussed later.

General Guide to %DV

5% DV or less of a nutrient per serving is considered low
20% DV or more of a nutrient per serving is considered high
More often, choose foods that are:

Higher in %DV for Dietary Fiber, Vitamin D, Calcium, Iron, and Potassium
Lower in %DV for Saturated Fat, Sodium, and Added Sugars
Example: Look at the amount of sodium in one serving listed on the sample nutrition label. Is %DV of 37% contributing a lot or a little to your diet? Check the General Guide to %DV. This product contains 37% DV for sodium, which shows that this is a HIGH sodium product (it has more than 20% DV for sodium). If you consumed 2 servings, that would provide 74% of the DV for sodium - nearly three-quarters of an entire day's worth of sodium.

Compare Foods: Use %DV to compare food products (remember to make sure the serving size is the same) and more often choose products that are higher in nutrients you want to get more of and lower in nutrients you want to get less of.

Understand Nutrient Content Claims: Use %DV to help distinguish one claim from another, such as "light," "low," and "reduced." Simply compare %DVs in each food product to see which one is higher or lower in a particular nutrient. There is no need to memorize definitions.

Dietary Trade-Offs: You can use the %DV to help you make dietary trade-offs with other foods throughout the day. You don't have to give up a favorite food to eat a healthy diet. When a food you like is high in saturated fat, balance it with foods that are low in saturated fat at other times of the day. Also, pay attention to how much you eat during the entire day, so that the total amount of saturated fat, as well as other nutrients you want to limit, stays below 100%DV.

How the Daily Values Relate to the %DVs

Look at the example below for another way to see how the Daily Values (DVs) relate to the %DVs and dietary guidance. For each nutrient listed in the table, there is a DV, a %DV, and dietary advice or a goal. If you follow this dietary advice, you will stay within public health experts' recommended upper or lower limits for the nutrients listed, based on a 2,000-calorie daily diet.

Examples of DVs versus %DVs

Based on a 2,000 Calorie Diet

Upper Limit - Eat "Less than"...

Upper limit means it is recommended that you stay below or eat "less than" the Daily Value nutrient amounts listed per day. For example, the DV for saturated fat is 20g. This amount is 100% DV for this nutrient. What is the goal or dietary advice? To eat "less than" 20 g or 100%DV each day.

Lower Limit - Eat "At least"...

The DV for dietary fiber is 28g, which is 100% DV. This means it is recommended that you eat "at least" this amount of dietary fiber on most days.

Nutrients Without a %DV: Trans Fats, Protein, and Total Sugars:

Note that Trans fat and Total Sugars do not list a %DV on the Nutrition Facts label. Protein only lists a %DV in specific situations listed below.

Trans Fat: Experts could not provide a reference value for trans fat nor any other information that FDA believes is sufficient to establish a Daily Value.

According to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, there is evidence that diets higher in trans fat are associated with increased blood levels of low-density lipoprotein (LDL or "bad") cholesterol—which, in turn, are associated with an increased risk of developing cardiovascular disease. Note: most uses of artificial trans fat in the U.S. food supply have been phased out as of 2018.

Protein: A %DV is required to be listed if a claim is made for protein, such as "high in protein." The %DV for protein must also be listed on the label if the product is intended for infants and children under 4 years of age. However, if the product is intended for the general population 4 years of age and older and a claim is not made about protein on the label, the %DV for protein is not required.

Current scientific evidence indicates that protein intake is not a public health concern for adults and children over 4 years of age in the United States.

Total Sugars: No Daily Reference Value has been established for Total Sugars because no recommendations have been made for the total amount to eat in a day. Keep in mind that the Total Sugars listed on the Nutrition Facts label include naturally occurring sugars (like those in fruit and milk) as well as Added Sugars.

Nutrition Facts Label Variations
Many Nutrition Facts labels on the market will be formatted in the same way as the lasagna label that has been used as an example throughout this page, but there are other formats of the label that food manufacturers are permitted to use. This final section will present two alternate formats: the dual-column label and the single-ingredient sugar label.

In addition to dual-column labeling and single-ingredient sugar labels, there are other label formats which you can explore here.

Dual-Column Labels

For certain products that are larger than a single serving but that could be consumed in one sitting or multiple sittings, manufacturers will have to provide "dual column" labels to indicate the amounts of calories and nutrients on both a "per serving" and "per package" or "per unit" basis. The purpose of this type of dual-column labeling is to allow people to easily identify how many calories and nutrients they are getting if they eat or drink the entire package/unit at one time. For example, a bag of pretzels with 3 servings per container might have a label that looks like this to show you how many calories and other nutrients would be in one serving and in one package (3 servings).

Single-Ingredient Sugar labels

Packages and containers of products such as pure honey, pure maple syrup, or packages of pure sugar are not required to include a declaration of the number of grams of Added Sugars in a serving of the product but must still include a declaration of the percent Daily Value for Added Sugars. Manufacturers are encouraged, but not required, to use the "†" symbol immediately following the Added Sugars percent Daily Value on single-ingredient sugars, which would lead to a footnote explaining the amount of added sugars that one serving of the product contributes to the diet as well as the contribution of a serving of the product toward the percent Daily Value for Added Sugars. Single-ingredient sugars and syrups are labeled in this way so that it does not look like more sugars have been added to the product and to ensure that consumers have information about how a serving of these products contributes to the Daily Value for added sugars and to their total diet.


Understanding Food Nutrition Labels
The Nutrition Facts label can help you make healthier eating choices and identify nutrient-dense foods for a healthy diet. Here are some tips to better understand the information on these labels.

Learn what to look for on the label.
Nutrition label diagram

1 - Start with the serving information.
This tells the size of a single serving and the total number of servings per container. The serving size reflects the amount people typically eat or drink.

2 - Check total calories per serving and container.
Notice how many calories are contained in one serving. Compare this to the number of servings you eat. If you eat two servings, you double the calories and nutrients.

The next sections on a Nutrition Facts label are about the amounts of specific nutrients in the product.

3 - Limit certain nutrients.
Check key nutrients and understand what you're looking for.

Focus on the amount of saturated and trans fats rather than the amount of total fats. Not all fats are bad.  
Avoid trans fat. When the Nutrition Facts label lists "0 g" of trans fat but includes "partially hydrogenated oil" in the ingredient list, it means the food contains some trans fat, but less than 0.5 grams per serving. So, if you eat more than one serving, you could end up eating too much trans fat.
Total sugars can include both natural and added sugars.
Limit the amounts of added sugars, saturated fat and sodium you eat.
Compare labels on different brands or similar products and choose foods with less of these nutrients when possible.
4 - Get enough of the beneficial nutrients.
Make sure you get enough of the nutrients your body needs, such as calcium, dietary fiber, iron, potassium and vitamin D.*

We all need more dietary fiber to help reduce blood cholesterol levels, provide us with a feeling of fullness and manage a healthy body weight. Adults need at least 25-35 grams of fiber daily for good health.

5 - Understand % Daily Value.
The % Daily Value (DV) tells you the percentage of each nutrient in a single serving, in terms of the daily recommended amount. If you want to consume less of a nutrient (such as saturated fat or sodium), choose foods with a lower % DV (5% or less). If you want to consume more of a nutrient (such as fiber), choose foods with a higher % DV (20% or more).

The information shown on the label is based on a diet of 2,000 calories a day. You may need less or more than 2,000 calories depending upon your age, gender, activity level and whether you're trying to lose, gain or maintain your weight.

The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates the Nutrition Facts label on packaged foods and drinks. In 2016, the FDA released changes to the label to make it easier to see how many calories and added sugars are in a product and to make serving sizes more realistic. As of January 2020, all food manufacturers were required to make these changes on the Nutrition Facts labels on their products.

 
*Source: 2020-2025 Dietary Guidelines for Americans


How to Read Food Labels Without Being Tricked
Look on the Back
Ingredients List
Serving Sizes
Misleading Claims
Names for Sugar
Bottom Line
Reading labels can be tricky.

Consumers are more health-conscious than ever, so some food manufacturers use misleading tricks to convince people to buy highly processed and unhealthy products.

Food labeling regulations are complex, making it harder for consumers to understand them.

This article explains how to read food labels so that you can differentiate between mislabeled junk and truly healthy foods.

Don't Let the Claims on the Front Fool You
One of the best tips may be to completely ignore claims on the front of the packaging.

Front labels try to lure you into purchasing products by making health claims.

In fact, research shows that adding health claims to front labels makes people believe a product is healthier than the same product that doesn't list health claims — thus affecting consumer choices (1Trusted Source, 2Trusted Source, 3Trusted Source, 4Trusted Source).

Manufacturers are often dishonest in the way they use these labels. They tend to use health claims that are misleading and in some cases downright false.

Examples include many high-sugar breakfast cereals like whole-grain Cocoa Puffs. Despite what the label may imply, these products are not healthy.

This makes it hard for consumers to choose healthy options without a thorough inspection of the ingredients list.

SUMMARY
Front labels are often used to lure people into buying products. However, some of these labels are highly misleading.

Study the Ingredients List
Product ingredients are listed by quantity — from highest to lowest amount.

This means that the first ingredient is what the manufacturer used the most of.

A good rule of thumb is to scan the first three ingredients, as they make up the largest part of what you're eating.

If the first ingredients include refined grains, a type of sugar, or hydrogenated oils, you can assume that the product is unhealthy.

Instead, try choosing items that have whole foods listed as the first three ingredients.

In addition, an ingredients list that is longer than two to three lines suggests that the product is highly processed.

SUMMARY
Ingredients are listed by quantity — from highest to lowest. Try looking for products that list whole foods as the first three ingredients and be skeptical of foods with long lists of ingredients.

Watch out for Serving Sizes
Nutrition labels state how many calories and nutrients are in a standard amount of the product — often a suggested single serving.

However, these serving sizes are frequently much smaller than what people consume in one sitting.

For example, one serving may be half a can of soda, a quarter of a cookie, half a chocolate bar, or a single biscuit.

In doing so, manufacturers try to deceive consumers into thinking that the food has fewer calories and less sugar.

Many people are unaware of this serving size scheme, assuming that the entire container is a single serving, when in truth it may consist of two, three, or more servings.

If you're interested in knowing the nutritional value of what you're eating, you need to multiply the serving given on the back by the number of servings you consumed.

SUMMARY
Serving sizes listed on packaging may be misleading and unrealistic. Manufacturers often list a much smaller amount than what most people consume in one setting.

The Most Misleading Claims
Health claims on packaged food are designed to catch your attention and convince you that the product is healthy.

Here are some of the most common claims — and what they mean:

Light. Light products are processed to reduce either calories or fat. Some products are simply watered down. Check carefully to see if anything has been added instead — like sugar.
Multigrain. This sounds very healthy but only means that a product contains more than one type of grain. These are most likely refined grains — unless the product is marked as whole grain.
Natural. This does not necessarily mean that the product resembles anything natural. It simply indicates that at one point the manufacturer worked with a natural source like apples or rice.
Organic. This label says very little about whether a product is healthy. For example, organic sugar is still sugar.
No added sugar. Some products are naturally high in sugar. The fact that they don't have added sugar doesn't mean they're healthy. Unhealthy sugar substitutes may also have been added.
Low-calorie. Low-calorie products have to have one-third fewer calories than the brand's original product. Yet, one brand's low-calorie version may have similar calories as another brand's original.
Low-fat. This label usually means that the fat has been reduced at the cost of adding more sugar. Be very careful and read the ingredients list.
Low-carb. Recently, low-carb diets have been linked to improved health. Still, processed foods that are labeled low-carb are usually still processed junk foods, similar to processed low-fat foods.
Made with whole grains. The product may contain very little whole grains. Check the ingredients list — if whole grains aren't in the first three ingredients, the amount is negligible.
Fortified or enriched. This means that some nutrients have been added to the product. For example, vitamin D is often added to milk. Yet, just because something is fortified doesn't make it healthy.
Gluten-free. Gluten-free doesn't mean healthy. The product simply doesn't contain wheat, spelt, rye, or barley. Many gluten-free foods are highly processed and loaded with unhealthy fats and sugar.
Fruit-flavored. Many processed foods have a name that refers to a natural flavor, such as strawberry yogurt. However, the product may not contain any fruit — only chemicals designed to taste like fruit.
Zero trans fat. This phrase means "less than 0.5 grams of trans fat per serving." Thus, if serving sizes are misleadingly small, the product may still contain trans fat (5Trusted Source).
Despite these cautionary words, many truly healthy foods are organic, whole grain, or natural. Still, just because a label makes certain claims, doesn't guarantee that it's healthy.

SUMMARY
Many marketing terms are associated with improved health. These are often used to mislead consumers into thinking that unhealthy, processed food is good for them.

Different Names for Sugar
Sugar goes by countless names — many of which you may not recognize.

Food manufacturers use this to their advantage by purposely adding many different types of sugar to their products to hide the actual amount.

In doing so, they can list a healthier ingredient at the top, mentioning sugar further down. So even though a product may be loaded with sugar, it doesn't necessarily appear as one of the first three ingredients.

To avoid accidentally consuming a lot of sugar, watch out for the following names of sugar in ingredient lists:

Types of sugar: beet sugar, brown sugar, buttered sugar, cane sugar, caster sugar, coconut sugar, date sugar, golden sugar, invert sugar, muscovado sugar, organic raw sugar, raspadura sugar, evaporated cane juice, and confectioner's sugar.
Types of syrup: carob syrup, golden syrup, high-fructose corn syrup, honey, agave nectar, malt syrup, maple syrup, oat syrup, rice bran syrup, and rice syrup.
Other added sugars: barley malt, molasses, cane juice crystals, lactose, corn sweetener, crystalline fructose, dextran, malt powder, ethyl maltol, fructose, fruit juice concentrate, galactose, glucose, disaccharides, maltodextrin, and maltose.
Many more names for sugar exist, but these are the most common.

If you see any of these in the top spots on the ingredients lists — or several kinds throughout the list — then the product is high in added sugar.

SUMMARY
Sugar goes by various names — many of which you may not recognize. These include cane sugar, invert sugar, corn sweetener, dextran, molasses, malt syrup, maltose, and evaporated cane juice.

The Bottom Line
The best way to avoid being misled by product labels is to avoid processed foods altogether. After all, whole food doesn't need an ingredients list.

Still, if you decide to buy packaged foods, be sure to sort out the junk from the higher-quality products with the helpful tips in this article.


Food labels
Nutrition information labels can help you choose between products and keep a check on the amount of foods you're eating that are high in fat, salt and added sugars.

Most pre-packed foods have a nutrition information label on the back or side of the packaging.

You can use nutrition information labels to help you eat a balanced diet.

If you're choosing foods and drinks that are high in fat, salt and sugar, have these less often and in small amounts.

Most people in the UK eat and drink too many calories, too much fat, sugar and salt, and not enough fruit, vegetables, oily fish or fibre.

Nutrition information labels on the back or side of packaging
Most pre-packed foods have a nutrition information label on the back or side of the packaging. These labels must include the amount of energy in kilojoules (kJ) and kilocalories (kcal), usually referred to as calories.

They must also include information on fat, saturates (saturated fat), carbohydrate, sugars, protein and salt. They may also include other nutrients, like fibre.

All nutrition information is provided per 100 grams or per 100 millilitres and sometimes per portion of the food or drink.

How do I know if a food is high in fat, saturated fat, sugar or salt?
There are guidelines to tell you if a food is high in fat, saturated fat, salt, sugar or not.

These are:

Total fat
High: more than 17.5g of fat per 100g
Low: 3g of fat or less per 100g

Saturated fat
High: more than 5g of saturated fat per 100g
Low: 1.5g of saturated fat or less per 100g

Sugars
High: more than 22.5g of total sugars per 100g
Low: 5g of total sugars or less per 100g

Salt
High: more than 1.5g of salt per 100g (or 0.6g sodium)
Low: 0.3g of salt or less per 100g (or 0.1g sodium)

For example, if you're trying to cut down on saturated fat, eat fewer foods that have more than 5g of saturated fat per 100g.

Different criteria are used to determine whether a drink is high or low in fat, saturated fat, sugar or salt.

Some nutrition information labels on the back or side of packaging also provide information about reference intakes.

Nutrition labels on the front of packaging
Many supermarkets and food manufacturers now also highlight the energy, fat, saturated fat, sugars and salt content on the front of the packaging, alongside the reference intake for each of these.

This is very useful when you want to compare different food and drink products at a glance.

Front-of-pack labels usually give a quick guide to:

energy (calories)
fat content
saturated fat content
sugars content
salt content
These labels provide information on the number of grams of fat, saturated fat, sugars and salt, and the amount of energy (in kJ and kcal) in a serving or portion of the food or drink. It may also provide the amount of kJ and kcal per 100g or per 100ml.

But be aware that the manufacturer's idea of a portion may be different from yours.

Some front-of-pack nutrition labels also provide information about reference intakes.

Red, amber and green colour coding
Example of traffic light food labelling from a burger.Credit:
NHSD/Annabel King

Some front-of-pack nutrition labels use red, amber and green colour coding.

Colour-coded nutritional information tells you at a glance if the food has high, medium or low amounts of fat, saturated fat, sugars and salt:

red means high
amber means medium
green means low
In general, a food or drink that has all or mostly green on the label is a healthier choice.

Amber means neither high nor low, so you can eat foods with all or mostly amber on the label most of the time.

But any red on the label means the food is high in fat, saturated fat, salt or sugars, and you should limit your intake of these foods and drinks.

Try to eat these foods less often and in small amounts.

Reference intakes
Nutrition labels can also provide information on how a particular food or drink product fits into your daily recommended diet.

Reference intakes are guidelines about the approximate amount of particular nutrients and energy required for a healthy diet.

Ingredients list
Pre-packed food products must have a list of ingredients with allergens highlighted on the packaging or an attached label.

The ingredients list can also help you work out how healthy the product is.

Ingredients must be listed in descending order of weight, so the main ingredients in the packaged food always come first.

That means that if the first few ingredients are high-fat ingredients, such as cream, butter or oil, then the food in question is likely to be a high-fat food.

Food shopping tips
You're standing in the supermarket aisle looking at 2 similar products, trying to decide which to choose. You want to make the healthier choice, but you're in a hurry.

If you're buying pre-packaged or ready meals, check to see if there's a nutrition label on the front of the pack, and then see how your choices stack up when it comes to the amount of energy, fat, saturated fat, sugars and salt.

If the nutrition labels use colour coding, you'll often find a mixture of red, amber and green.

So when you're choosing between similar products, try to go for more greens and ambers, and fewer reds, if you want to make a healthier choice.


How to read food labels
8-minute read

 Print  Share  Save

Listen
Key facts
In Australia, by law, all manufactured foods have a label that show safety and nutrition information.
Food labels help you make informed decisions about the food you buy and eat.
The nutrition information panel tells you the size of a standard serving of the product and which nutrients are in that serving.
The Health Star Rating is a guide to help you make healthier choices.
For a healthy balanced diet, you need to eat protein rich foods like lean meat, poultry and dairy products, fresh fruit and vegetables — these foods usually don't have a food label, a nutrition panel or a Health Star Rating.
On this page
What information is on the food label?
Understanding nutrition claims
How to read the nutrition information panel
Comparing products
Health Star Rating (HSR) system
Resources and support
Related information on Australian websites
What information is on the food label?
The label on a packaged food will tell you:

the name and brand of the product
what ingredients it contains (listed in order from largest to smallest by weight) — this includes a list of food additives and information for people with food allergies
nutrition information (such as average amount of energy, fat, protein, sugars and salt)
percentage labelling (how much of the main ingredients it contains, so you can compare it to other products)
use-by or best-before date and directions for use and storage
details of the manufacturer and the country where the food was produced
how much it weighs
In Australia, all manufactured foods have to have labels containing safety and nutrition information by law. This information helps you to make decisions about the food you buy and eat so you can follow a healthy diet.

Understanding nutrition claims
Most labels tell you what percentage of the main ingredients are in packaged foods. If there is an ingredient that is known to cause allergies, it must be written no matter how much is used. This helps you to compare similar products easily and work out how the food fits into a balanced diet. Read more about recommended daily intakes for adults and recommended daily intakes for children.

The label may make a number of nutrition claims such as 'gluten free', 'low GI', 'low fat', 'reduced salt' or 'high fibre'. These mean the product meets strict criteria set by the government. Even if a product makes a nutrition claim, this doesn't mean that it is healthy. For example, a product that is 'low fat' may have more kilojoules (energy) than another similar product. Check the nutrition information panel to see how the product compares.

How to read the nutrition information panel
The nutrition information panel tells you the size of a standard serving of the product, and which nutrients are included in that serving. You can use the label to compare the product with what's in similar packaged foods.

Look out for information about:

Energy: A kilojoule is a measure of energy. To lose weight, you need to eat and drink fewer kilojoules (kJ) than you use. You should limit your intake of discretionary or junk foods — for example, those that have more than 600kJ per serve.
Protein: Protein is found in meat, poultry, dairy, fish, eggs, beans, soy, nuts and seeds. Protein is important for growth and has the same amount of kilojoules as carbohydrates.
Fat (total): Fat is higher in kilojoules than other nutrients, so you should limit the total amount you eat.
Saturated fat: There are different types of fats. Saturated fats are linked to a higher risk of heart disease and high blood cholesterol, so it is especially important to choose foods low in saturated fat.
Carbohydrate (total): Carbohydrates are found in all fruit and vegetables, all breads and grain products, and sugar and sugary foods. You need carbohydrates for energy.
Sugar: Sugar is a type of carbohydrate. It is better to choose healthier carbohydrates and to limit foods that are high in added sugars.
Healthy carbohydrates: Healthier carbohydrates are those that are not process, or minimally processed such as whole grains, lentils and beans. As well as carbohydrates, these foods also give you fibre, vitamins and minerals.
Fibre: High fibre foods such as wholegrain bread and cereals improve digestion and help you to feel full.
Sodium: This tells you how much salt the product contains. Eating too much salt is linked to high blood pressure and can lead to heart disease, stroke and kidney disease.
Nutrition Information Panel
Source: Australian Government's Eat For Health website.
Comparing products
To compare similar products, it is best to look in the column on the nutrition information panel that shows the quantity of a nutrient per 100g or per 100ml so you know you are comparing the same thing.

For most people, healthier options include products that have lower levels of saturated fat, sugar and sodium (salt) per 100g, and higher levels of fibre.

It's a good idea to look at the food as a whole rather than just one nutrient, when comparing products.

Health Star Rating (HSR) system
The Health Star Rating on the front of the pack is designed to help you choose healthier packaged foods quickly.

Health Star Rating System (HSR)
And example of a Health Star Rating for packaged food. Watch the video to on how to read and compare the Health Star Rating of packaged products.
Packaged foods are rated at between ½ and 5 stars. The rating is calculated according to ingredients that increase the risk of obesity and are linked to other chronic diseases, such as diabetes or heart disease. The more stars, the healthier the product.

The health stars are designed to help you compare similar packaged products. For example, they might help you choose the healthiest breakfast cereal, but not to compare breakfast cereal with yoghurt.

Remember, the Health Star Rating is a guide to help you make healthier choices of packaged foods. For a healthy balanced diet, you need to eat protein rich foods like lean meat, poultry and dairy products, and a lot of fresh fruit and vegetables, which usually don't have a Health Star Rating.

For more information on how to use the Health Star Rating, visit their website.

Resources and support
You can find more information online about food labelling on the Food Standards Australia website or at eat for health.

For further guidelines and illustrations on healthy eating tips for Aboriginal and/or Torres Stright Islander people, look at the eat for health factsheet.

If you are over 65 years, read eat for health's factsheet on healthy eating tips, specifically for you.

Other resources for information about healthy eating include:

Australian Government - Eating well
Australian Dietary Guidelines
Australian Government - Diet
Speak to a dietitian to learn how to read food labels in a way that meets your specific health needs. To find a dietitian near you, use the healthdirect Service Finder

Sources:
Food Standards Australia New Zealand (Labelling poster - How to read food labels), Eat For Health (How to understand food labels), Eatforhealth.gov.au (Nutrient Reference Values for Australia and New Zealand), Food Standards Australia New Zealand (Ingredient lists and percentage labelling), Food Standards Australia New Zealand (Nutrition content claims and health claims), Heart research Institute (5 healthy carbohydrate-rich foods)
Learn more here about the development and quality assurance of healthdirect content.

Last reviewed: August 2023


Diabetes & Food
Reading Food Labels
Making Sense of Food Labels
Trying to figure out nutritional information on labels and packaging isn't easy. The good news is that we can help. These food labels are especially helpful if you use carb counting to plan your meals!

If you get tripped up on food content claims, you're not alone. Fat free vs. low fat vs. reduced fat. Low cholesterol vs. reduced cholesterol. It's confusing, and it can be tough when you're trying to make the right choices.

Serving size
Start by looking at the serving size. All of the information on the label is based on the serving size listed. If you eat more, that means you'll be getting more calories, carbohydrates, etc. than what is listed.

Amount per serving
The information on the left side of the label tells you the total of the different nutrients in one serving of the food. Use these numbers to compare labels of similar foods.

Calories
Calories are a unit of energy—think of them as the energy your body consumes and uses for bodily functions. Curious how many calories you need? Talk with a registered dietitian nutritionist (RD/RDN).

Total carbohydrate
Total carbohydrate on the label includes all three types of carbohydrate: sugar, starch and fiber. It's important to use the total grams when counting carbs or choosing which foods to include. Below the Total Carbohydrate (carbs), you will find a breakdown of the types of carbohydrate in the food. Learn more about carbs.

Added sugar
One of the three types of carbohydrates in food is sugar. As of January 2021, labels must include added sugar to help you know the difference between sugar that occurs naturally in the food (like yogurt or fruit) and sugar that was added during processing (like in cookies, candy and soda). Many labels have already made the change. Learn more about sugar and the three main types of carbohydrates.

Fiber
Fiber is the part of plant foods that is not digested-or for some types, only partially digested. Dried beans such as kidney or pinto beans, fruits, vegetables and whole intact grains are all good sources of fiber. The amount of fiber you need depends on your age and gender. Healthy adults need between 25 and 38 grams of fiber a day on average—you can find recommendations for your age group and gender in the Dietary Guidelines for Americans (DGA). Learn more about fiber and the three main types of carbohydrates.

Sugar alcohols
Sugar alcohols are a type of sugar substitute that have fewer calories per gram than sugars and starches. Sorbitol, xylitol and mannitol are examples of sugar alcohols. If a food contains sugar alcohols, it would be listed on the label under Total Carbohydrate. It's important to keep in mind that foods that contain sugar alcohols are not necessarily low in carbohydrate or calories. And, just because a package says "sugar-free" on the outside does not mean that it is calorie or carbohydrate-free. Always check the label for the grams of total carbohydrate and calories.

Fats
Total fat tells you how much fat is in one serving of the food. In general when it comes to fat, try to replace foods high in saturated fat or trans fat with foods rich in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats to reduce your risk of heart disease. Learn more about fats.

Sodium
Sodium is the scientific term for salt. It does not affect blood sugar. However, excess dietary sodium increases your risk of high blood pressure and heart disease. With some foods, you can taste how salty they are, such as pickles or bacon. But there is also hidden salt in many foods, like salad dressings, lunch meat, canned soups and other packaged foods. Reading labels can help you find these hidden sources and compare the sodium in different foods. Whether you have diabetes or not, 2300 milligrams (mg) or less per day is the general recommendation. If you have high blood pressure, talk with your health care team to find out the best goal for you.

List of ingredients
Ingredient lists can be a helpful tool. Ingredients are listed in order by weight with the first ingredient being the highest amount in the food. Knowing the ingredients is useful in making healthy choices like increasing fiber (look for words like whole grain, whole wheat, etc.) or decreasing sugar (look for words like cane sugar, agave, maple syrup, honey, etc.).

Percent Daily Values (%DV)
The Percent Daily Values for each nutrient are found in the right column on the label. These tell you what percent of each nutrient the food provides if you were on a 2,000 calorie per day diet.  As a general rule of thumb, aim for less than 5% for nutrients you want to limit, such as sodium and saturated fat. Aim for 20% or more for nutrients you want to get more of such as fiber, vitamin D, calcium and iron.

"Net carbs" and Other Nutrient Claim Meanings
You've probably seen the term "net carbs" on some food packages. Many food companies make claims about the amount of carbohydrate in their products. However, "net carbs" doesn't have a legal definition from the FDA, and they are not used by the American Diabetes Association. Always look at the Total Carbohydrate on the Nutrition Facts label first. Checking your blood sugar can help you figure out how specific carbs affect you.

Net carbs isn't the only confusing nutrition claim you'll find on food packages. For example, have you ever wondered what the difference is between fat free, saturated fat free, low fat and reduced and less fat? The government has defined some claims that can be used on food packaging. Here's what they mean:

Calories
Calories free: less than 5 calories per serving
Low calorie: 40 calories or less per serving
Total, saturated, and trans fat
Fat free: less than 0.5 grams of fat
Saturated fat free: less than 0.5 grams of saturated fat
Trans fat free:  less than 0.5 grams of trans fat
Low fat: 3 grams or less of total fat
Low saturated fat: 1 gram or less of saturated fat
Reduced fat or less fat: at least 25% less fat than the regular version
Sodium
Sodium free or salt free: less than 5 mg of sodium per serving
Very low sodium: 35 mg of sodium or less
Low sodium: 140 mg of sodium or less
Reduced sodium or less sodium: at least 25% less sodium than the regular version
Cholesterol
Cholesterol free: less than 2 mg per serving
Low cholesterol: 20 mg or less
Reduced cholesterol or less cholesterol: at least 25% less cholesterol than the regular version
Sugar
Sugar free: less than 0.5 grams of sugar per serving
Reduced sugar: at least 25% less sugar per serving than the regular version
No sugar added or without added sugars: no sugar or sugar-containing ingredient is added during processing
Fiber
High fiber: 5 grams or more of fiber per serving
Good source of fiber: 2.5 to 4.9 grams of fiber per serving

Nutrition Facts Label and Your Health
Key points
The Nutrition Facts Label on packaged foods is based on dietary recommendations for Americans.
Read the label on your packaged food and drinks to track sugars, fats, protein, and other nutrients.
Using the label can help you choose foods for a healthy diet.
Woman reading dairy label
Overview
The Nutrition Facts Label on packaged foods is based on dietary recommendations for Americans. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulates what goes on the Nutrition Facts Label. Below are explanations of parts of the label and some tips for using it to follow healthy eating patterns.

Example of the nutrition facts label.
This label is required on all packaged foods made in the United States and imported from other countries.
Serving size
The serving size reflects what people are likely to eat or drink. This is not necessarily the portion you should eat. For example, one serving size of ice cream is labeled as ⅔ cup. A 12-ounce or 20-ounce bottle of soda is labeled as one serving.

Be sure you know how many servings are in packaged food. For example, if you buy what looks like an individual sized chicken pie, check the Nutrition Facts Label. It might actually be two servings. with double the calories and sodium of a single serving.

Dual Column Labels
Some food and drink packages that contain more than one serving may have a dual column Nutrition Facts Label. In that case, one column on the Nutrition Facts Label may provide calorie and nutrition information for one serving. Another column may provide calorie and nutrition information for the whole package.

Calories and fat
Larger, darker letters make calories the easiest item to see.

When it comes to health outcomes, the type of fat you eat matters more than the overall amount of fat. The Nutrition Facts Label shows total fat in grams and percentages of calories from fat.

The Nutrition Facts Label has separate lines for saturated and trans fats, which are less healthy than other types of fat. Look for foods with very little saturated and trans fats.

Sodium
The recommended daily limit for sodium is 2,300 milligrams. The Nutrition Facts Label indicates the number of milligrams of sodium in a serving.

Most sodium we consume is from salt, which is a common ingredient in processed foods. Read the Nutrition Facts Labels and choose the product with less sodium.

Keep Reading:
Tips for Reducing Sodium Intake
Added Sugars
The Nutrition Facts Label shows the percentage of calories from added sugars. Naturally occurring sugars, such as those in fruit or milk, are not added sugars. Added sugars include brown sugar, maple sugar, corn sweetener, corn syrup, honey, malt syrup, and molasses.

The two main sources of added sugars in the United States are sugary drinks and desserts/sweet snacks. Keep your intake of added sugars to less than 10% of your total daily calories. That means if you consume 2,000 calories in a day, added sugars should account for no more than 200 calories.

If you eat even one large dessert or sugary drink per day, you are likely getting more than the recommended daily limit of added sugar. Try drinking plain water instead of sugary drinks and limiting the serving size of treats. See how to Rethink Your Drink and Be Sugar Smart.

Nutrients
The amount of these nutrients are required to be on the Nutrition Facts Label:

Vitamin D
Calcium
Iron
Potassium
Food producers can voluntarily include vitamins A and C.


Cara Membaca Informasi Nilai Gizi pada Kemasan Makanan
Cara membaca
Kenali zat gizi
Komposisi kandungan
Cara Membaca Informasi Nilai Gizi pada Kemasan Makanan
Informasi nilai gizi (nutrition facts) adalah label pada kemasan makanan atau minuman yang mencantumkan kandungan gizi produknya. Keterangan pada label ini sangat bermanfaat bagi seseorang yang sedang membatasi asupan kalori. Mengingat banyaknya nilai gizi pada label ini, tidak heran bila banyak orang kesulitan membacanya.

Cara mudah membaca informasi nilai gizi
Di bawah ini berbagai komponen dalam label informasi gizi pada kemasan makanan dan minuman serta penjelasan lengkapnya.

1. Jumlah sajian per kemasan
Setiap informasi nilai gizi menggambarkan kandungan gizi untuk satu sajian, bukan satu kemasan.

Satu kemasan makanan (satu bungkus, kotak, atau kaleng) biasanya memiliki lebih dari satu sajian. Jumlah sajian per kemasan menunjukkan jumlah takaran saji yang terdapat dalam satu kemasan makanan.

Ambil contoh, suatu produk keripik kentang memiliki keterangan "4 sajian per kemasan". Ini artinya setiap satu kemasan bisa dibagi menjadi 4 sajian atau dikonsumsi sebanyak 4 kali dengan tiap frekuensi konsumsi menghabiskan satu sajian.

Jika Anda makan satu bungkus snack kemasan tersebut hingga habis, Anda mendapat asupan gizi berjumlah 4 kali lipat dari nilai yang tertera pada kemasan.

Begitu pun bila Anda makan dua bungkus keripik kentang tersebut, asupan kalori dan gizi yang Anda dapat menjadi 8 kali lipat.

2. Kalori total per sajian
cra hitung kalori makanan kemasan

Kalori total pada informasi nilai gizi menunjukkan banyaknya energi yang akan Anda dapatkan dari setiap sajian makanan atau minuman.

Semakin banyak sajian produk yang Anda konsumsi, semakin besar pula asupan kalori yang Anda dapatkan.

Penulisan kalori biasanya disertai keterangan "kalori dari lemak" yang sudah termasuk ke dalam kalori total. Sebagai contoh, sebungkus makaroni punya keterangan "kalori total per sajian" sebanyak 250 kkal dan "kalori dari lemak" sebanyak 110 kkal.

Apabila Anda mengonsumsi satu sajian makaroni tersebut, Anda akan memperoleh energi total sebanyak 250 kkal.

Dari angka tersebut, sebanyak 110 kkal berasal dari lemak, sedangkan sisanya berasal dari karbohidrat dan protein.

Kalori harian pada informasi nilai gizi biasanya merujuk angka kebutuhan kalori per hari atau sebesar 2.000 kkal.

Makanan berkalori tinggi dan rendah
Badan Pengawas Obat dan Makanan Amerika Serikat (FDA) mengelompokkan tingkat kalori makanan kemasan dengan ketentuan berikut.
Rendah: jika jumlah kalori mendekati atau sekitar 40.
Sedang: jika jumlah kalori mendekati atau sekitar 100.
Tinggi: jika jumlah kalori mendekati atau sekitar 400.
3. Angka kecukupan gizi (AKG)
Angka kecukupan gizi (AKG) pada informasi nilai gizi merujuk pada kebutuhan energi harian rata-rata yaitu sebesar 2.000 kkal.

Nilai ini menunjukkan jumlah zat gizi dalam satuan berat seperti miligram (mg) atau gram (gr) atau disajikan dalam bentuk persentase (%) AKG.

Setiap zat gizi memiliki rekomendasi asupan harian masing-masing. Sementara itu, persentase AKG yaitu perbandingan antara zat gizi dalam suatu produk dengan total zat gizi yang Anda butuhkan.

Ada satu kotak jus jeruk yang terdiri dari satu sajian. Produk ini mengandung vitamin C yang setara dengan 50% AKG per sajian.

Dengan mengonsumsi satu kotak jus jeruk tersebut, Anda telah memenuhi 50% kebutuhan vitamin C per hari.

Mengenali zat gizi dalam suatu produk
cara membaca label nutrisi makanan atau informasi nilai gizi

Selain mengetahui cara membaca informasi nilai gizi, Anda sebaiknya juga mengenali zat gizi apa saja yang perlu dipenuhi dan dibatasi.

1.  Kandungan gizi yang harus dibatasi
Beberapa kandungan yang harus dibatasi dari makanan kemasan yakni lemak jenuh, lemak trans, gula tambahan, dan garam (natrium).

Keempatnya biasanya sudah terpenuhi dari makanan sehari-hari, jadi asupan dari makanan kemasan perlu dibatasi.

Asupan berlebihan justru dapat meningkatkan risiko berbagai penyakit kronis, seperti penyakit jantung, hipertensi, dan kanker.

Untuk mempermudah Anda, carilah makanan kemasan yang kandungan lemak, gula, dan natriumnya kurang dari 5% AKG.

Perlu diketahui bahwa label informasi nilai gizi tak selalu mencantumkan zat gizi dalam persen AKG, melainkan dalam satuan gram.

Meski begitu, prinsipnya tetap sama, yaitu Anda perlu mengonsumsi zat gizi sesuai kebutuhan yang ada dalam AKG.

2. Kandungan gizi yang harus dipenuhi
Tubuh memerlukan karbohidrat, protein, lemak, vitamin, dan mineral untuk menjalankan seluruh fungsinya.

Selain itu, zat gizi mempunyai peran penting untuk menurunkan risiko berbagai gangguan kesehatan.

Asupan mineral kalsium dan mineral fosfor yang cukup bisa mencegah pengeroposan tulang, atau vitamin C penting untuk sistem imun.

Untuk memenuhi kebutuhan nutrisinya, pilihlah produk dengan kecukupan gizi sekitar 20% AKG atau lebih.

Memperhatikan komposisi makanan
Satu lagi komponen yang tidak kalah penting dari informasi nilai gizi yakni komposisi makanan.

Produk yang mengandung berbagai bahan biasanya memiliki keterangan ini. Umumnya, semua bahan diurutkan dari jumlah terbanyak hingga yang paling sedikit.

Membaca komposisi makanan amat bermanfaat bagi Anda yang harus memperhatikan asupan zat gizi tertentu.

Salah satu contoh, orang yang perlu mengurangi konsumsi gula juga perlu menghindari pemanis buatan seperti aspartam dan corn syrup.

Label informasi nilai gizi merupakan komponen penting dalam suatu kemasan produk makanan dan minuman. Dari situlah Anda bisa mengetahui jumlah kalori dan berbagai zat gizi yang penting.

Semua informasi tersebut dihitung secara akurat menurut sajian per kemasan. Dengan membaca label informasi ini, Anda secara tidak langsung juga berperan aktif dalam menjaga kesehatan tubuh Anda.

Begini Cara Membaca Tabel Informasi Nilai Gizi, Mudah Kok!
Penulis:

mymealcatering

Kategori:

Kesehatan

Update:

16 June 2023

Komentar:

0 Comments

Informasi nilai gizi ditulis dalam bentuk tabel yang terletak di bagian samping atau belakang kemasan makanan. Tabel ini berguna sebagai informasi apa saja kandungan gizi yang terdapat pada makanan atau minuman tersebut.

Pada dasarnya, ada banyak tulisan dan angka yang tercantum dalam tabel ini sehingga tidak sedikit yang masih belum paham bagaimana cara membacanya, apakah Anda salah satunya?

Jika demikian, berikut MinMeal sampaikan bagaimana cara membaca informasi nilai gizi pada kemasan makanan.

Daftar Isi
Cara Mudah Membaca Label Nutrisi
Berikut ini adalah aspek penting yang tercantum dalam tabel informasi nilai gizi yang perlu Anda perhatikan:

1. Jumlah Sajian per Kemasan
Pada umumnya informasi nilai gizi ditulis berdasarkan pada satu kali penyajian. Jika ada makanan dan minuman dalam kemasan besar, biasanya memiliki beberapa kali jumlah sajian. Maksudnya dalam satu kemasan tidak dianjurkan untuk dihabiskan sekaligus oleh satu orang.

Contohnya satu kemasan biskuit dengan ukuran 500 gram, memiliki keterangan "5 sajian per kemasan", artinya dalam satu kemasan bisa dibagi menjadi 5 kali makan.

Jadi, jika Anda langsung menghabiskan biskuit tersebut dalam satu waktu sekaligus, Anda mendapat zat gizi 5 kali lipat dari yang tertera pada tabel.

2. Kalori Total per Sajian
Kalori merupakan satuan dari energi yang dibutuhkan tubuh agar bisa beraktivitas sehari-hari.

Kalori yang tercantum pada informasi nilai gizi berlaku untuk satu sajian per kemasan. Seperti pembahasan di awal jika pada kemasan tercantum "5 sajian per kemasan" maka jumlah total kalori dalam kemasan biskuit tadi adalah 5 kali lipatnya.

Keterangan kalori ini ditulis sebagai "energi", dan dibagi menjadi dua jenis yaitu "energi total" dan "energi dari lemak". Misalnya "energi total" tertulis 150 kkal dan "energi dari lemak" 70 kkal, itu artinya dalam satu sajian Anda akan mendapat 150 kalori yang mana 70 diantaranya berasal dari lemak.

3. Kandungan Gizi
Selain jumlah sajian dan kalori per kemasan, sejumlah kandungan gizi juga tertulis dalam tabel antara lain lemak, protein, karbohidrat, garam, dan vitamin atau mineral lainnya jika terdapat pada makanan.

Karena penulisan informasi gizi ini tidak bisa sembarangan, Anda bisa mengkonfirmasi kebenaran dari apa yang dipasarkan merk dengan kondisi asli makanan. Jika di sebuah iklan minyak goreng disebutkan mengandung vitamin A, Anda bisa melihatnya di tabel gizi yang tercentum, jika benar tentu akan tertulis vitamin A beserta persentasenya.

4. Angka Kecukupan Gizi (AKG)
Angka Kecukupan Gizi (AKG) adalah jumlah kalori atau energi harian yang dibutuhkan, rata-rata kebutuhan setiap individu di Indonesia adalah 2.300 kkal dalam sehari.

Jumlah AKG pada informasi nilai gizi disajikan dalam bentuk persentase, ini akan memudahkan Anda mengetahui apakah jumlah gizi Anda sudah cukup setelah mengkonsumsi makanan kemasan tersebut.

Sebagai contoh, pada kemasan biskuit tadi tertulis protein 12 gram dan persentase 20%, artinya dengan mengkonsumsi satu sajian biskuit Anda sudah memenuhi 20% dari kebutuhan protein dalam sehari.

cara membaca informasi nilai gizi
Foto: MyMeal Catering

Perhatikan Komposisi Makanan
Selain membaca informasi nilai gizi, Anda juga perlu perhatikan apa saja komposisi yang terkandung dalam kemasan makanan tersebut.

Makanan kemasan biasa mengandung banyak bahan penyusun seperti pengawet dan pemanis tambahan, serta penguat rasa.

Kandungan gula, garam, dan lemak adalah beberapa yang harus dibatasi konsumsinya karena sejatinya kita sudah mendapat zat gizi tersebut dari makanan sehari-hari selain dari makanan kemasan.

Penting bagi kita untuk mengetahui cara membaca informasi nilai gizi pada kemasan makanan dan minuman. Dengan begitu kita bisa memperkirakan zat gizi apa saja yang kita dapatkan setelah mengkonsumsi makanan dan minuman tersebut.

Pada kemasan MyMeal Catering juga dicantumkan label gizi agar customer paham kandungan gizi yang terdapat pada setiap porsi makannya.


Nutrition plays a critical role in maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Foods rich in Protein, Carbohydrates, and Fiber provide essential energy and aid digestion. Monitoring your intake of Calories, Sugar, and Fat is equally important to maintain balance. Excessive Saturated Fat or Cholesterol can lead to health issues, while nutrients like Calcium, Iron, and Vitamin support bone strength and immunity.
A balanced diet ensures the right amount of Total nutrients, including Sodium, also known as Natrium, which helps regulate fluid balance in the body. However, excessive Salt consumption can increase blood pressure. Foods fortified with Calcium and Iron help prevent deficiencies. Reducing Saturated Fat and focusing on whole foods with Fiber can promote long-term health.
Understanding food labels is crucial for managing your Nutrition. Look for details such as Calories, Protein, Fat, and Carbohydrates. Check the Cholesterol, Sodium, and Sugar levels to avoid excessive intake. Some foods are enriched with Vitamin D, Calcium, and Iron to support specific nutritional needs. High Fiber foods help maintain digestive health and regulate blood sugar levels.
The Total daily intake of Calories should align with your physical activity level to maintain a healthy weight. Limit consumption of processed foods high in Salt, Sugar, and Saturated Fat. Instead, focus on meals that provide Protein, Fiber, and essential minerals like Iron and Calcium. Adding Vitamin-rich fruits and vegetables to your diet supports overall well-being.
Dietary recommendations often emphasize the importance of reducing Sodium or Natrium to protect heart health. Additionally, managing your intake of Calories, Cholesterol, and Fat helps in weight management. Choose foods with high Fiber content and low Sugar for better digestion. Nutrients like Iron, Calcium, and Vitamin C improve energy levels and support the immune system.

Memperhatikan asupan Kalori setiap hari sangat penting untuk menjaga keseimbangan energi tubuh. Makanan yang kaya akan Karbohidrat, Protein, dan Serat dapat memberikan energi yang cukup serta mendukung pencernaan yang sehat. Namun, konsumsi Lemak, Gula, dan Kolesterol yang berlebihan harus dihindari karena dapat meningkatkan risiko penyakit jantung dan obesitas. Selain itu, mengurangi Garam dalam makanan juga penting untuk menjaga tekanan darah tetap normal.
Diet yang seimbang memerlukan pemilihan makanan dengan kandungan Kalori yang sesuai kebutuhan tubuh. Hindari makanan olahan yang tinggi Gula, Lemak, dan Kolesterol untuk menjaga kesehatan jantung. Sebagai gantinya, pilihlah makanan yang mengandung Serat tinggi, seperti sayuran dan buah-buahan, untuk mendukung pencernaan yang baik. Karbohidrat kompleks, seperti dari nasi merah atau gandum utuh, juga menjadi pilihan yang lebih sehat dibandingkan karbohidrat sederhana. Kurangi penggunaan Garam untuk menghindari risiko hipertensi.

